.\" NailSnake manual page — compatible with man-db and BSD man(1).
.TH NAILSNAKE 1 "June 2026" "NailSnake 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nailsnake \- full-screen terminal Snake game with rich colors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nailsnake
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B NailSnake
is a cross-platform command-line Snake game for Windows, Linux, and macOS.
It uses the terminal alternate screen and raw keyboard input (similar to
.BR vim (1)
or
.BR nvim (1))
to provide a responsive, GUI-like experience entirely inside the shell.
.PP
The playfield is drawn with
.BR ratatui (7)
and
.BR crossterm (7),
with automatic color detection for truecolor, 256-color, and basic ANSI
terminals. High scores and game counts are saved under the user configuration
directory for your operating system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-difficulty " " \fIMODE\fR
Set difficulty preset affecting base snake speed.
\fIMODE\fR may be
.IR chill ,
.IR normal ,
.IR hard ,
or
.IR insane
(default:
.IR normal ).
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-wrap
Enable wall wrapping: leaving one edge re-enters on the opposite side
instead of ending the game.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-color " " \fITYPE\fR
Force color mode:
.IR auto ,
.IR truecolor ,
.IR 256 ,
or
.IR basic
(default:
.IR auto ).
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-grid
Draw faint grid dots on the playfield.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH CONTROLS
.TP
.B Enter
Start the game from the title screen.
.TP
.B Arrow keys
Move the snake.
.TP
.B WASD
Alternative movement keys.
.TP
.B Space
Pause or resume.
.TP
.B R
Restart the current round.
.TP
.B Q
.B Esc
Quit and restore the terminal.
.TP
.B Ctrl+c
Force quit (terminal is restored).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I Linux / BSD
~/.config/NailSnake/stats.json
.TP
.I macOS
~/Library/Application Support/NailSnake/stats.json
.TP
.I Windows
%APPDATA%\\NailSnake\\stats.json
.PP
These files store the high score and total games played.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B COLORTERM
When set to
.I truecolor
or
.IR 24bit ,
enables RGB color output.
.TP
.B TRUECOLOR
If present, enables truecolor mode.
.TP
.B TERM
Terminal type; values containing
.I 256
or
.I xterm
hint at 256-color support.
.TP
.B WT_SESSION
Set by Windows Terminal; helps auto-detect modern color support on Windows.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start a normal game:
.PP
.RS
.nf
nailsnake
.fi
.RE
.PP
Hard mode with wall wrap and visible grid:
.PP
.RS
.nf
nailsnake \-\-difficulty hard \-\-wrap \-\-grid
.fi
.RE
.PP
Force 256-color palette on older terminals:
.PP
.RS
.nf
nailsnake \-\-color 256
.fi
.RE
.SH INSTALLATION
Build and run from source with
.BR cargo (1):
.PP
.RS
.nf
cargo install \-\-path .
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install the manual page (Linux/macOS, requires root or write access to the man path):
.PP
.RS
.nf
make install-man
.fi
.RE
.PP
Then view this page with:
.PP
.RS
.nf
man nailsnake
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nsnake (6),
.BR vim (1),
.BR cargo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Voltsparx \(la voltsparx@gmail.com \(ra
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Voltsparx.
License MIT.
.SH BUGS
Report issues to Voltsparx at voltsparx@gmail.com.
